---
title: "The Bet"
date: 2018-11-22T11:40:16+03:00
draft: false
categories: ["musings"]
---

I wouldn’t go as far as to call myself a voracious book reader, but I have read enough over the years to develop a taste for fine books, like a connoisseur. I can imbibe the stellar works of the Fitzgeralds and the Steinbecks with immeasurable glee while astutely dodging the mediocrity of the Dan Browns and Chetan Bhagats. These days I read pretty much indiscriminately from all genres and I value the knowledge I get from these books. But I wasn’t always like this, I used to loathe reading anything longer than a few 10s of pages. The first book I ever read was an illustrated and abridged version of Oliver Twist, I liked it, but wouldn’t have pulled through without the pictures.

There was this short story called “The Bet” as a part of my middle school’s English curriculum, which had a profound impact on my reading habits. The Bet is between two men about whether the death penalty or life imprisonment is a harsher sentence. The richer of the dudes (of course, a banker) agreed offer two million bucks if the other guy stays in prison for 15 years. The prisoner is allowed to read any number of books as long as he agrees to never leave the room or meet other people. Towards the end of 15 years, sensing that the prisoner has almost pulled off the wager, the banker tries to kill off the prisoner when he comes across a note left by the prisoner announcing his renouncement of the prize money. The prisoner ascribed his decision to the immense pleasure and wisdom he acquired through those books. He writes,

> “It is true I have not seen the earth nor men, but in your books I have drunk fragrant wine, I have sung songs, I have hunted stags and wild boars in the forests, have loved women … Beauties as ethereal as clouds, created by the magic of your poets and geniuses, have visited me at night, and have whispered in my ears wonderful tales that have set my brain in a whirl. In your books I have climbed to the peaks of Elburz and Mont Blanc, and from there I have seen the sun rise and have watched it at evening flood the sky, the ocean, and the mountain-tops with gold and crimson.”

This story had a profound impact on me because I was in a way locked in a prison myself when I first read it. I read this during my final exams and exam time was always a curfew in my house, with no television or play time and I used to religiously count down to the last day of the exam. I remember vowing to give this reading business another shot once the exams were done. I started off easy with an Agatha Christie novel about Egyptian pharaohs. The suspense provided the motivation to complete the book and since Ms. Christie is an excellent writer, I was transcended to Egypt during an era of embitterment between Mr and Mrs Pharaoh. Having read just over 100 books (not much I know, but am not bragging :D), I have had variegated experiences like the philosophy of existentialism, a war camaraderie, a sliver of hope amidst post-apocalyptic despondence, the outlandish awe of a window seat on a space shuttle, to name a few. I will be eternally indebted to this short story for setting me on this path of literary bliss.